Installing on Windows
=====================

Copyright David A.W. Barton (david.barton@bristol.ac.uk) 2015.

All of the associated source code and documentation is released under the MIT
license.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


Overview
--------

This document describes how to build firmware for the real-time controller,
install suitable device drivers for the real-time controller and use it with
Matlab.

It is not necessary to build the firmware if you have already have suitable
firmware to use.


To build the real-time controller firmware (optional)
-----------------------------------------------------

The instructions below uses the Cygwin environment to build the firmware. It
should also be possible to use the MSYS environment in much the same way
(untested!).

1. Download GCC ARM compiler from
   <https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded/4.9/4.9-2014-q4-major/+download/gcc-arm-none-eabi-4_9-2014q4-20141203-win32.exe>.

    * Any recent version (i.e., post 2013) should work. Probably even ones
      earlier than that will work as well.

2. Install ARM compiler.

    * At the end you will have the option of adding the compiler to your path,
      doing so will make your life *slightly* easier. 

3. Download Cygwin from <http://www.cygwin.org/>.

4. Install Cygwin with git and make selected (both under the devel category).

    * It will say that other packages are required; accept the suggestions.

5. Start the Cygwin terminal. By default the home directory is in
   `c:\cygwin\home\<username>`.

    * If you didn't add the compiler to your path, you will have to add it to
      your path in Cygwin with the command 

            export PATH=$PATH:"/cygdrive/c/Program Files (x86)/GNU Tools ARM Embedded/4.9 2014q4/bin"

6. Decide where you are going to store the files.

    * If you want to store them in your normal Windows Documents folder it is
      easiest to create a symbolic link to the appropriate place. E.g., if you
      have already created the folder "controlcont" in your Documents folder,
      issue the command

            ln -s /cygdrive/c/Users/<username>/My\ Documents/controlcont

      to create a link to that folder in your Cygwin home directory, then
      `cd controlcont`.

    * Alternatively, create a new directory in your Cygwin home directory, e.g.,
      `mkdir controlcont` followed by `cd controlcont`.

7. Clone the necessary repositories from [GitHub](http://github.com/db9052/).

        git clone https://github.com/db9052/rtc rtc
        cd rtc
        git clone https://github.com/db9052/starterware starterware

8. Build TI Starterware.

        cd build
        make starterware
        cd ..

9. Build the rig of your choice, e.g., duffing_numerical for a simple test

        cd rigs/duffing_numerical
        make

10. Put the resulting `.bin` file on a micro SD card as app.bin. There should
    also be a file called `uEnv.txt` on the SD card which contains the following
    text (only).

        uenvcmd=mmcinfo;fatload mmc 0 0x80000000 app.bin; go 0x80000000

Once you have done all this once, you only need to repeat steps 9 and 10 to
compile new versions of your firmware.


Device drivers for the USB interface to the real-time controller
----------------------------------------------------------------

1. Build the firmware (as above) and start up the real-time controller by
   plugging it into a suitable USB port. 

    * If your USB port cannot provide enough power, a 5V power supply can be
      used to power the board using the barrel connector.

2. Ignore any of Window's requests for installing a device driver.

3. Download Zadig from <http://zadig.akeo.ie> and run it as an Administrator.

4. Select the "Real-time controller (Interface 0)" and the WinUSB driver. Press
   "Install WCID Driver".

5. Select the "Real-time controller (Interface 1)" and the WinUSB driver. Press
   "Install WCID Driver".

6. Download the "Latest Windows binaries" from <http://libusb.info> and extract
   `libusb-1.0.dll` from either the MS32 or the MS64 directory depending on
   whether you are using 32 bit Windows (and Matlab) or 64 bit Windows (and
   Matlab). Rename it as `libusb.dll` and put it in the `rtc\matlab` folder
   alongside `rtc_interface.m`.

7. The real-time controller is now ready for use with Matlab.


To use the real-time controller in Matlab
-----------------------------------------

1. Make sure that you have a suitable compiler for using the Matlab mex
   function. (Check the output of `mex -setup`.)

    * A suitable (free) compiler is Microsoft Visual Studio Community Edition.

2. Start Matlab.

3. Add `controlcont\rtc\matlab` to the Matlab path (`help addpath`).

4. Add the appropriate rig directory to the Matlab path, e.g.,
   `controlcont\rtc\rigs\duffing_numerical`.

5. Create the interface to the controller with

        rtc = duffing_numerical_interface()

6. All the controller parameters are available through
   `rtc.par.<variable name>`.

7. Time series data can be collected through the use of streams; see the help
   for `rtc.set_stream`, `rtc.run_stream`.

    * By default, 5 different streams (0-4) are available for use.

    * The maximum amount of data a stream can return is around 8 MB.


<!-- pandoc -s install-windows.txt -o install-windows.html -->
